README.md, before:

# Audio Processing Learning

This repository contains my code and projects related to learning audio processing and deep learning based on audio.

The database used in the projects is not included to avoid copyright issues.

## Chapters

### Chapter 1
- Signal Processing Techniques:
  - Amplitude Envelope Calculation
    - Note: Try different np.pad modes and choose "wrap"
  - Root Mean Square (RMS) Calculation
    - Note: Compare RMS, ZCR, AE
  - Spectral Centroid and Bandwidth Calculation
  - Zero Crossing Rate Computation
  - Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) Implementation
    - Note: Compare with ZCR, since ZCR reflects frequency
  - Mel-frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) Computation
    - Note: Compare with ZCR

### Chapter 2
- Deep Learning for Audio with Python:
  - Artificial Neuron Implementation
  - Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) Implementation
    - Note1: The derivative of the sigmoid can be calculated with the activations saved
    - Note2: Calculation of matrix derivative
    - Note3: Simply use shape to ensure the priority of dot multiplication
    - Note4: Sigmoid can only be used to models that outputs in $[0,1]$
  - Data Preprocessing Utilities
    - Note: Use .json to store data
  - Music Genre Classification based on MLP
    - Note1: More layers and nodes do not necessarily mean better performance. It predominantly depends on the structure of the model.
    - Note2: Attempts were made to train the MLP using MFCC delta features (mfcc_delta2), but the results were found to be unsatisfactory.
    - Note3: Dropout is useful.
    - Note4: With ploting the history, it can be known that too much epochs does not improve the performance.
  - Music Genre Classification based on CNN
    - Note1: CNN performs much better than simply MLP, since CNN can learn the relationships and features from spectrum.
    - Note2: Under the same condition(100 epochs), just using MFCC has an accuracy of 75.35%, while using MFCC_delta2 as 3 channels has an accuracy of 75.51%, indicating there is still no significant difference between them. When using 200 epochs for MFCC_delta2(also changed learning_rate, dropout and regularizer), the accuracy will only become 75.83%, and the history plot shows that the accuracy will not change significantly after about the 90-th epoch.
  - Music Genre Classification based on RNN-LSTM
    - Note1: Pay attention to the input shapes for different models. LSTM requires 2-dimensional data (for each input), while CNN requires 3-dimensional data since it has an extra dimension for channels (which will not be used for MFCC).
    - Note2: RNN-LSTM has an accuracy of 67.75% (after 150 eopchs), which is lower than CNN. It may can be improved through some ways like add the number of cells.

### Chapter 3
- Sound Generation with Neural Networks
  - AutoEncoder
    - Note: In the MNIST task, the autoencoder can reconstruct the primary features of the origin images.A 3D latent space works better than 2D, because similar figures will overlap with each other in 2d space, which will be resolved in 3d cases. However, there is no significant difference between them.
  - Variational AutoEncoder
    - Note1: When extending the class VAE from Autoencoder, pay close attention to the distinctions between AE and VAE. According to the abstraction principle, only override the bottleneck function.
    - Note2: Be catious with numpy when implementing loss functions. Use functions in K instead.
    - Note3: Load function should be override because we create VAE instead of Autoencoder. Tried to avoid this waste through using `subclass = globals()[cls.__name__]` (like reflection in Java) and failed.
    - Note4: VAE does not perform significantly better than AE. The primary improvement is achieved by increasing the dimensionality of the latent space.
## References

- [音频信号处理及深度学习教程](https://space.bilibili.com/550180844/channel/collectiondetail?sid=1034039&ctype=0)
- [Audio Signal Processing for Machine Learning](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNqIee7cH3q1bh4QJFAaeNv0)
- [Deep Learning (for Audio) with Python](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNrtbkCNsLcpoAyBBRJZVlnf)
- [Generating Sound with Neural Networks](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNpEyENTc-tVH5tfLGKtSWPp)

Commit message:

implement speech generation based on VAE & results

README.md, after:

# Audio Processing Learning

This repository contains my code and projects related to learning audio processing and deep learning based on audio.

The database used in the projects is not included to avoid copyright issues.

## Chapters

### Chapter 1
- Signal Processing Techniques:
  - Amplitude Envelope Calculation
    - Note: Try different np.pad modes and choose "wrap"
  - Root Mean Square (RMS) Calculation
    - Note: Compare RMS, ZCR, AE
  - Spectral Centroid and Bandwidth Calculation
  - Zero Crossing Rate Computation
  - Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) Implementation
    - Note: Compare with ZCR, since ZCR reflects frequency
  - Mel-frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) Computation
    - Note: Compare with ZCR

### Chapter 2
- Deep Learning for Audio with Python:
  - Artificial Neuron Implementation
  - Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) Implementation
    - Note1: The derivative of the sigmoid can be calculated with the activations saved
    - Note2: Calculation of matrix derivative
    - Note3: Simply use shape to ensure the priority of dot multiplication
    - Note4: Sigmoid can only be used to models that outputs in $[0,1]$
  - Data Preprocessing Utilities
    - Note: Use .json to store data
  - Music Genre Classification based on MLP
    - Note1: More layers and nodes do not necessarily mean better performance. It predominantly depends on the structure of the model.
    - Note2: Attempts were made to train the MLP using MFCC delta features (mfcc_delta2), but the results were found to be unsatisfactory.
    - Note3: Dropout is useful.
    - Note4: With ploting the history, it can be known that too much epochs does not improve the performance.
  - Music Genre Classification based on CNN
    - Note1: CNN performs much better than simply MLP, since CNN can learn the relationships and features from spectrum.
    - Note2: Under the same condition(100 epochs), just using MFCC has an accuracy of 75.35%, while using MFCC_delta2 as 3 channels has an accuracy of 75.51%, indicating there is still no significant difference between them. When using 200 epochs for MFCC_delta2(also changed learning_rate, dropout and regularizer), the accuracy will only become 75.83%, and the history plot shows that the accuracy will not change significantly after about the 90-th epoch.
  - Music Genre Classification based on RNN-LSTM
    - Note1: Pay attention to the input shapes for different models. LSTM requires 2-dimensional data (for each input), while CNN requires 3-dimensional data since it has an extra dimension for channels (which will not be used for MFCC).
    - Note2: RNN-LSTM has an accuracy of 67.75% (after 150 eopchs), which is lower than CNN. It may can be improved through some ways like add the number of cells.

### Chapter 3
- Sound Generation with Neural Networks
  - AutoEncoder
    - Note: In the MNIST task, the autoencoder can reconstruct the primary features of the origin images.A 3D latent space works better than 2D, because similar figures will overlap with each other in 2d space, which will be resolved in 3d cases. However, there is no significant difference between them.
  - Variational AutoEncoder
    - Note1: When extending the class VAE from Autoencoder, pay close attention to the distinctions between AE and VAE. According to the abstraction principle, only override the bottleneck function.
    - Note2: Be catious with numpy when implementing loss functions. Use functions in K instead.
    - Note3: Load function should be override because we create VAE instead of Autoencoder. Tried to avoid this waste through using `subclass = globals()[cls.__name__]` (like reflection in Java) and failed.
    - Note4: VAE does not perform significantly better than AE. The primary improvement is achieved by increasing the dimensionality of the latent space.
  - Speech reconstruction based on VAE
    - Note1: Due to the higher complexity of audio data compared to images in MNIST, we should use the latent space with higher dimensions(in this case, 512) and a more complex network structure. Additionally, the reconstruction loss weight of VAE should be significantly larger(compared with the MNIST task), to improve the reconstruction performance.
    - Note2: It can be very annoying to deal with the shape problem in stft and istft. In this task, I use griffinlim instead of istft, since the complex part of spectrogram is lost during preprocessing.
    - Note3: While the generated spectrogram looks good, the generated audio does not. There might be an issue with reconstructing the audio from the generated spectrogram.
## References

- [音频信号处理及深度学习教程](https://space.bilibili.com/550180844/channel/collectiondetail?sid=1034039&ctype=0)
- [Audio Signal Processing for Machine Learning](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNqIee7cH3q1bh4QJFAaeNv0)
- [Deep Learning (for Audio) with Python](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNrtbkCNsLcpoAyBBRJZVlnf)
- [Generating Sound with Neural Networks](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-wATfeyAMNpEyENTc-tVH5tfLGKtSWPp)
